# Shoot-Like-Ronaldo-Predict-Soccer-Penalty-Outcome-with-Wearables
A  penalty  shot  is  a  crucial  opportunity  of  scoringa  goal  in  soccer  and  often  becomes  a  game-winning  factor.  Thegoalkeeper has to guess the ball flight trajectory within a fractionof  a  second  and  typically  jumps  to  either  side  of  the  goalposttaking  (often  mistakenly)  cues  from  the  kicker.  These  cues  arepostulated  in  goalkeeper’s  mind  based  on  the  kicker’s  posture,run-up,  and  angle  of  attack  at  the  ball.  Statistical  analysis  ofhistorical  data  helps  pundits  to  identify  beneficial  strategies  insuch  a  competitive  environment  but  these  tactical  knowledge  isof  marginal  help  to  a  novice  soccer  player  for  improving  theirpenalty  kickout  and  blocking  skills.  Oftentimes,  players  are  notequally  skilled  at  successfully  placing  the  ball  around  differentsections of the goalpost. To empower players with a retrospectiveview of their performance and identifying the strong versus weakshots, and blocking capabilities, it’s crucial to detect the direction,force,  and  trajectory  of  the  shots.  In  this  work,  we  propose  awearable sensor-based approach to detect the outcome of variousgoal shots from the kicker’s dominant foot movement profile. Weempirically  assign  six  hot-zones  inside  the  goal  post  and  collectdata on a real-life penalty shoot-out using economically availableaccelerometer   sensors   from   four   participants.   We   develop   adeep learning approach for the shot classification and we reportsuperior (53%) accuracy over traditional approaches (47%) in achallenging  setting  of  recognizing  different  goal  shots  from  thesegmented  data  stream.
